---
title: Statistical methods for Multi-Fidelity strategies (2022-)
categories: [Research]
comments: true
---
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({
    tex2jax: {inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']]},
    "HTML-CSS": { preferredFont: "TeX", availableFonts: ["STIX","TeX"] }
  });
</script>
<script type="text/javascript"
  src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_HTML">
</script>


My research focuses on leveraging multiple computer models with varying levels of fidelity (in terms of accuracy and cost) to achieve more accurate estimations, a field known as multi-fidelity (MF) modeling.
The field includes semi-supervised learning problems, where we are given partially labeled data
$$(X_1,Y_1), \dots (X_n,Y_n), X_{n+1}, \dots, X_{n+m}, $$ as low-fidelity data ($X$) is more accessible than high-fidelity data ($Y$).
According to Peherstorfer et al. (2018), MF strategies can be categorized into three types as follows:

1. **Adaptation**: High-fidelity information is used to enhance the lower-fidelity model.
2. **Filtering**: The low-fidelity model is explored to determine where to evaluate the high-fidelity model.
3. **Fusion**: This involves the combined use of multiple models.

### My Contributions

The application of our interest concerns modeling ship motions (and especially their extremes) in the field of Naval Architecture. I have conducted a series of studies in this area, and my research can be categorized as follows:

- **MF Calibration**: Kim (2023) of adaptation type focused on improving the low-fidelity output by leveraging high-fidelity output.
- **MF Importance Sampling**: Kim (2024a) tackled the problem of estimating the probability density function (p.d.f) of high-fidelity values based on a kernel-based importance sampling estimator, a problem that combines filtering and fusion strategies.
- **MFMC**: Kim (2024b) research focuses on statistical perspective on multi-fidelity Monte Carlo estimators. We propose and compare fusion-type estimators for parametric distributions.

For more details, please refer to the corresponding publications.

### References

- Peherstorfer, B., Willcox, K., and Gunzburger, M, (2018), ‘Survey of multifidelity methods in uncertainty propagation, inference, and optimization’. *SIAM Review*, 60(3), 550–591.

- M. Kim, V. Pipiras, A. Reed, K. Weems, (2023), Calibration of low-fidelity ship motion programs through regressions of high-fidelity forces, *Ocean Engineering*, 290, 116321

- M. Kim, K. O’Connor, V. Pipiras, T. Sapsis, (2024a), Sampling low-fidelity outputs for estimation of high-fidelity density and its tails, *SIAM/ASA Journal on Uncertainty Quantification*, to appear

- M. Kim, B. Brown, V. Pipiras, (2024b), Parametric multi-fidelity Monte Carlo estimation with applications to extremes, Preprint.

