---
title: STOR 155 Introduction to Data Models and Inference
categories: [Teaching]
---

### From Deterministic to Probabilistic Scenarios

- **Modeling a problem that has a definite solution versus those that involve uncertainty and probability.**
- **Question 1:** Chris and Amy bought a total of 10 books. Chris bought 4 books. How many books did Amy buy?
  1. Set a variable `x` to formulate the problem.
  2. Solve for `x`.
- **Question 2:** Minji has perfectly symmetrical dice. Roll the dice, and let `X` be the number on the top.
  1. What is your guess for `X`?
  2. Are you 100% certain about your guess in (1)?
  3. If we're not 100% certain, does that mean we know nothing about `X`? What can we still say about `X`?

- To describe a random variable, we can talk about *possible outcomes* and *probabilities assigned to them*.
- **What are some other examples of random variables?**
  - Is it common to find randomness in data from everyday life?
  - The dice example used a discrete set of numbers. Think of a random variable that uses a continuous set of numbers.

### What Do We Learn from STOR 155?

- **Four steps of scientific inquiry:**
  1. **Identify a question or problem of interest.**\\
    Move up as a researcher!
  2. **Collect relevant data.**\\
    Methods for data collection: sampling strategies, observational studies, experiments, and ways to collect reliable data.
  3. **Analyze the data.**\\
    Calculating summary statistics, regression and correlation, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals.
  4. **Form a conclusion.**\\
    Given a confidence interval or the result of a hypothesis test, what can we say about our data?
- **Statistics as the language of Science!**

### Case Study: Using Stents to Prevent Strokes

- **Objective:** Evaluate the effectiveness of stents in treating patients at risk of stroke.
- **Research Question:** Does the use of stents reduce the risk of stroke?
- **Study Details:** The researchers conducted an experiment with 451 at-risk patients. Patients randomly assigned 224 patients to the control group and 227 to the treatment group. The table below shows the distribution of patients who had a stroke at the 365-day follow-up.

  | **Group**      |         | **Stroke** |         |         |
  |----------------|---------|------------|---------|---------|
  |                |         | Yes        | No      | Total   |
  | **Treatment**  |         | 28         | 199     | 227     |
  | **Control**    |         | 45         | 179     | 224     |
  | **Total**      |         | 73         | 378     | 451     |


- **Proportion with stroke in treatment group:** approximately 12 %

- **Proportion with good outcomes in control group:** approximately 20%

### Understanding the Results

- **Do the data show a "real" difference between the groups?**
  - Suppose we have a fair coin and flip it 100 times. Let `X` represent the number of heads observed.
  - What is the expected number of heads and tails? Do we actually observe that in reality?
  - While the chance a coin lands heads in any given flip is 50%, we probably won't observe exactly 50 heads. This type of fluctuation is part of almost any type of data-generating process.

### Generalizing the Results

- **Are the results of this study generalizable to all at-risk patients?**
  - This set of patients could have specific characteristics, so it may not represent all stroke at-risk patients.

- **A Soup Example**
  - **Is an 80% non-random sample "better" than a 5% random sample in measurable terms? 90%? 95%? 99%?**
  - Which should we trust more: a 1% survey with a 60% response rate or a non-probabilistic dataset covering 80% of the population?
  - Think about tasting soup and wanting to know how salty it is.
    - Stir it well, then a few bits are sufficient **regardless of the size of the container!**
    - Stirring corresponds to a randomization process in statistics.
  - This example is from a lecture by Meng: See [this YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yz3jOIHLYhU).
